What users say:“Cheers for a great tool that actually makes programmers want to
write documentation!“
Sphinx is a tool that makes it easy to create intelligent and beautiful
documentation, written by Georg Brandl and licensed under the BSD license.
It was originally created for the Python documentation, and it has excellent
facilities for the documentation of software projects in a range of languages.
Of course, this site is also created from reStructuredText sources using Sphinx!
The following features should be highlighted:
Output formats: HTML (including Windows HTML Help), LaTeX (for printable PDF
versions), ePub, Texinfo, manual pages, plain text
Extensive cross-references: semantic markup and automatic links for functions,
classes, citations, glossary terms and similar pieces of information
Hierarchical structure: easy definition of a document tree, with automatic links
to siblings, parents and children
Automatic indices: general index as well as a language-specific module indices
Code handling: automatic highlighting using the Pygments highlighter
Extensions: automatic testing of code snippets, inclusion of docstrings from
Python modules (API docs), and more
Contributed extensions: more than 50 extensions contributed by users in a second
repository; most of them installable from PyPI


Sphinx uses reStructuredText as its markup language, and many of its strengths
come from the power and straightforwardness of reStructuredText and its parsing
and translating suite, the Docutils. Documentation
First steps with Sphinx
overview of basic tasks
Search page
search the documentation
Contents
for a complete overview
General Index
all functions, classes, terms
Changes
release history
You can also download PDF/EPUB versions of the Sphinx documentation from pop up
menu on lower right corner.Examples
Links to documentation generated with Sphinx can be found on the Projects using
Sphinx page.
For examples of how Sphinx source files look, use the “Show source” links on all
pages of the documentation apart from this welcome page.
You may also be interested in the very nice tutorial on how to create a customized
documentation using Sphinx written by the matplotlib developers.
There is a Japanese translation of this documentation, thanks to the Japanese Sphinx
user group.
A Japanese book about Sphinx has been published by O'Reilly: Sphinxをはじめよう /
Learning Sphinx.Hosting
Need a place to host your Sphinx docs? readthedocs.org hosts a lot of Sphinx docs
already, and integrates well with projects' source control. It also features a
powerful built-in search that exceeds the possibilities of Sphinx' JavaScript-based
offline search.Contributor Guide
If you want to contribute to the project, this part of the documentation is for you.
Sphinx Developer’s Guide
Sphinx Authors
